now let's go to our exclusive interview
with US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin he discussed the war on Gaza and
the prospects of a cease fire between
Hamas and Israel alzer's Jalal Chara
began by asking him about where the
negotiations currently
stand 12 days ago um President Biden
laid out this proposal and in that
time almost the entire world came out in
support of it uh including the United
Nations security Council but also the
Arab League virtually every country in
this region and well beyond um Israel
accepted the proposal Palestinian
Authority uh accepted the proposal uh
Hamas was the one answer we were waiting
for and the answer that we got last
night uh that was submitted to um cutter
it was submitted to Egypt uh and to us
as the mediators in this process
unfortunately was not the yes that
everyone else had provided uh it was um
looking for more changes to the uh to
the agreement including uh changes on
items that Hamas had previously accepted
so the hard reality is um we could have
a ceasefire we could have maybe had a
ceasefire 12 days ago uh but we don't in
this moment because Hamas has not said
yes we have I think some changes that
Hamas is looking for that are workable
that we can uh try to uh uh close close
the gap on there are others that are not
workable so we have to see in the days
ahead uh whether we can actually close
the gaps I think that um uh the gaps are
are bridgeable but just because they are
doesn't mean they will be ultimately
Hamas has to decide everyone else has
decided Hamas is not what is not
workable for you and for the Israel well
I can't get into the details you
understand that given the sensitivity of
the negotiations um we're not going to
talk about the the details but what I
can say is this the um proposal that
President Biden laid out 12 days ago was
virtually identical to one that Hamas
had accepted uh and put forward itself
on May the 6th so there's no reason why
uh this U agreement should not be
reached the only reason would be Hamas
continuing to try to change the terms
but here's
what's the reality the reality is as
this negotiation is going on during the
12 days that it took himas to respond
the world wasn't standing still Gaza
wasn't standing still people were
suffering every single day uh
Palestinian children women and men
suffering every single day so from my
perspective from our perspective it's
time to stop all of this haggling and
back and forth and start a ceasefire
Hamas said the priority is to stop uh
the war um uh what information did you
receive from um uh prime minister
Netanyahu during your meeting with him
few days ago in Israel um U concerning
the the permanent ceasefire in Gaza so
what I can tell you from my
conversations with the Prime Minister
Netanyahu was a reaffirmation of
Israel's acceptance of The Proposal
that's on the table and what does that
proposal have in it it it says first of
all that there'll be an immediate
ceasefire immediate and in that during
that immediate ceasefire um Israel will
pull its forces back from populated
areas in Gaza will surge more
humanitarian assistance into uh Gaza um
Palestinians living in Gaza will be able
to return to their neighborhoods their
homes if their homes are still intact
anywhere uh in Gaza and during that
initial Phase 6 weeks both parties
Israel and Hamas commit to negotiate
toward a permanent ceasefire with the
understanding that uh the initial
ceasefire will continue as long as those
negotiations are going on and this is
backed by the United States it's backed
by cter it's backed by Egypt this is the
quickest most effective path to a
durable ceasefire and that means an end
of the an end of the war it also opens
up so many other possibilities for where
we want to go um to try to get a truly
durable peace for everyone in the region
and one place that we believe it's
important to go is the realization of
Palestinian State how how do you plan to
address the situation now what are the
next steps so I've met over the last uh
two days with Qatari and Egyptian
counterparts we've been uh intensely
engaged with uh with all of our
colleagues who've been working as
mediators on this
agreement uh we have to continue to
analyze the document and then see if um
over the coming days we can find a way
to bridge the gaps that have emerged
because Hamas wouldn't say
yes well Hamas has released a statement
saying contrary to to Israel it does
want a deal signed the Hamas movement
has demonstrated it says in all stages
of negotiations to stop the aggression
the required positivity to reach a
comprehensive and satisfactory agreement
based on the FED Ms of our people for a
definitive sensation of aggression a
complete withdrawal of Israeli forces
from Gaza the return of the displaced
reconstruction and a serious prisoner
exchange deal the statement adds that
there hasn't been any confirmation from
the Israeli side that they have approved
any ceasefire proposal well let's bring
in Maan Bashar Al jaer senior political
analyst he joins us today via Skype from
Paris Maran we're seeing both sides
blaming each other again now blinkin
keeps saying that all that's missing is
a yes from Hamas but Israel hasn't said
yes
either well it seems according to the
Secretary of State Hamas has I mean
Israel uh has said yes secretly covertly
only to the Secretary of State not to
anyone else it seems because no one else
in the world is testifying to the fact
that Israel told
them that it agrees to the ceasefire uh
no Israeli official has come out
publicly no isra government vote uh has
been held to adopt the American come you
Security Council uh
resolution so you know I'm not sure how
many people are going to take the
Secretary of State's word for it he
clearly hasn't come through on many of
his uh words and commitments and
declarations over the past eight months
but be that as I may let me just
underline that uh it's great to have the
secretary St on our Channel he certainly
brighten our screen that he's uh nice to
us and we're nice to him you know uh we
asked the questions he answered them the
problem is um that he repeats more of
the same of the past so many uh months
for example and probably this is the
most Stark example for me he says since
President Biden uh made uh his uh
proposal public several hundred people
were killed in
Gaza well since the Palestinians and the
Arabs and others have called for a
ceasefire and America blocked it back in
October 2023
more than 30,000 people have been killed
and since then the United States
Secretary Blinn have blocked every
single call resolution draft resolution
for a ceasefire for a permanent
ceasefire uh in Gaza and as a result
here we are today Gaza is totally
destroyed a genocide is under way Mar
I'm just picking up on something that
you alluded to there this idea of a
permanent ceasefire and that's been a
sticking point since the beginning has
there actually been any progress made
are you seeing momentum
here look I appreciate the fact you say
alluded but I don't elude I said it very
very very very clearly this is exactly
the problem since the very beginning the
entire world except the United States
and at one point Britain and
Germany was on board for for an
immediate and permanent ceasefire
everyone in the world wanted a permanent
ceasefire except the United States and
its lackes in
Europe so what we have today is not a
permanent ceasefire and that's why Hamas
and so many others have a problem with
it they got on board with the UN
Security Council resolution for a simple
reason the United States said to the
world to China Russia and others my way
or the highway th you accept my proposal
or Israel is going to continue with its
war crimes in Gaza so after they
basically became desperate all the world
powers and the smaller States at the UN
Security Council came on board with the
United States they accept the reality
that Israel Palestine is within
America's sphere of interest and if it's
America doesn't agree to it it's not
going to happen and America and Israel
are going to have to manage the
so-called uh temporary ceasefire moving
forward and it's going to be up to
Israel if this thing happens as it move
to the second phase to decide whether it
wants or not yeah a permanent
ceasefire Maran Israel is saying that
the negotiations are continuing what's
actually happening behind the scenes
right now especially as we see these
strikes continue in in the strip in
places like al-
maasi oh there's absolutely no doubt
that the Israelis are doing what the
Israelis have said they're going to do
from the outset which is continue with
their war and they're going to use every
possible opportunity extra time uh
afforded to them by the United States to
do just exactly that destroy Gaza and go
after Hamas and it's whatever presence
there is in Gaza so Israel is not going
to save any effort or any time to do
just that and that's why the Israelis
are saying even if they embrace the UN
Security Council resolution they will
continue with the war soon after because
it affords them that why because in
phase two it does say upon the agreement
of the parties which mean upon the
agreement of Israel Israel is not going
to agree to a second phase where it
withdraws all forces from uh Gaza so
Israel is doing now what it has done the
past eight months what it will probably
do the next weeks and months which is
Contin with its War because America
continues to gives it ex excuses and
secretary blinkin continues to cover for
it
Maran bashara alzer's senior political
analyst there thanks for joining us
again
Maran make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer